[DM-2442] [GRAFT] opcua changelog (#2487)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/device-management/cumulocity-10-18-529-0-opcua-fix-device-type-encoding.md

---
date: 

> title: Fixed special characters encoding in OPC-UA device types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Fixed special characters encoding in OPC UA device types
```

product_area: Device management & connectivity
change_type:
  - value: change-VSkj2iV9m
    label: Fix
component:
  - value: component-Tf05_KQ-B
    label: OPC UA
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-MLn0oFRX-

>     label: opcua

Reviewer: I assume that for 2024 the build artifact still is cumulocity?

Author: oops... my bad! Good catch :)

ticket: DM-2442
version: 10.18.529.0
---

> When OPC-UA device type was created with special characters in any of the fields, the gateway was not reading it correctly which caused an error while creating mappings. This problem is now fixed - gateway encodes and decodes special characters as expected.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, when creating an OPC UA device type with special characters in any of the fields, the gateway was not reading it correctly which caused an error while creating mappings. This issue is now fixed, the gateway encodes and decodes special characters as expected.  
```
